Well, as with everything in this
life, the planets aligned and many
things happened and apart we
were in the right moment, prepared
and the market demanded it.
All these things until they happen,
there really is no success in
any business.
I’ll tell you a little anecdote
because it was very interesting.
The Plus Account came from a
dentist who ordered us a program
and didn’t like it.
He commissioned us a accounting
program for his business as a dentist
and when we delivered it to him he didn’
t like it.
And then from that accounting
core that came from this dentist,
we started working on
a accounting program.
And at that moment the idea came
and the idea was how his engineer,
always all mathematically, came
from an equation in which you
said we sold 500 programs
to 300 thousand pessetas.
I am talking about those when we
lived in pesetas we sold 500 programs
to 300 thousand pesetas.
What happens if we
change the equation?
We sell 300,000 programs for 500 pesetas.
The final sum is the same, but
the formula is completely
different.
That idea came up one night between
my partner and me and that
was exactly what we did.
What we did is that a product that
cost at that time 300 thousand pesetas,
we are talking at best of 8 thousand
euros today, because we sold
it to 4950 pesetas.
Instead of selling 500 products,
the idea was to sell 100,
000 products.
That idea arose in our heads as they
arise in entrepreneurs of these
ideas that invade you and your life
disappears, just see that.
And then at the moment that idea
came up, there was nothing else
in our lives.
There was no family, there was nothing.
We are working to transform
this equation.
The first thing we said was how
can we sell 300,000 products of
a thing that is not massive?
Where do people
go every day?
What is the usual sales channel?
The newspaper kiosks.
We said, the newspapers
are our point of sale.
Never in his life had
sold the newspapers kiosks.
What can we sell in the
newspaper kiosks?
At what price can we sell it?
We went to a newspaper kiosk,
we went to several newspaper
kiosks and the most expensive that
was sold, I will continue to talk
about pessetas, because it was an
encyclopedia that cost 500 pessetas.
What is happening?
We made the channel because
the margin we gave the kiosk was
so big that selling a Plus account
earned the same as selling
all the newspapers El
País or El Mundo del Día.
All those combinations came
up, we mortgaged our houses of
course, to make a television advertising
campaign, because as
it was massive, then I’
m telling you a little about
how it came up.
We made a television campaign, we
recorded an ad with our friends
because we logically didn’t
have money, but of course, we had
to spend ads on television, that
that cost a lot of money, for that
we had to mortgage the houses
because the media wholesalers
didn’t trust these gentlemen
and half and five, a quarter
prehistoric things for today.
We prepared it, put it on the channels,
distributed it and eventually
sold four million copies in
no way how many years.
I have explained a little bit about
the key to success.
The key was probably the change of
equation.
The market was mature, it was waiting
for a massive solution, it was one that
didn’t know what that product was
for, it was calling by phone and there
was a person behind it who answered it.
All these components together,
that when you analyze
them individually are not
so important, but when you see
them in the concept you realize
that we had been able to suit
the needs of the demand that there
was exactly at that time.
Alvaro has just explained it to us
in a spectacular way but I will
make a small summary.
Back in the 1990s, the software
was bought by large companies because
it was a very expensive product and
it was a product on a custom and
Álvaro and his partner one
day decided that they
wanted to revolutionize this market
and that they wanted all the companies
in the world to buy a accounting
software and what they did is created
a much simpler product, much
cheaper and standard and
also decided to sell it through
kiosks, something that was a
spectacular idea and through
television campaigns,
the software was not sold
through television campaigns
and through kiosks never
in life.
Well the result, they sold
four million products,
four million accountants and
revolutionized a millionaire
market and now Álvaro will illustrate
the consequences
of a eruption of this
type.
Well, because it started like that.
This was, because only to give you
an anecdote, Borja, we had
not launched the advertisement
and sold all the products we had placed.
And I saw myself watching the TV that
the ad was coming out and there were
no products, because they had already
sold all.
And it took us more time to re-
write than the campaign lasted.
That’s a crazy thing, right?
But, well, and that was the ball,
wasn’t it?
So what happens?
That what we did was reinvest
all that amount of money that
came into us every day, create
a support, a service that would
support all that success and
that was the key to maintenance.
That is, we did not see it
really as a ballot, we saw
it as we were meeting the needs
that the Spanish society
in the SMEs was demanding.
We had a problem and it was that every
three months the buildings
were getting small.
I remember in the Pradillo street
behind the world we picked up
a 2,000-meter building and
we said, and how long will
this last?
I said, man, this takes us five or ten
years.
In 6 months we sold it and
went to a 5,000 meter and
then a 10,000 meter, because
our call centers, of course,
we received 15,000 calls
a day.
We went with Operation Triunfo,
the only ones in Spain that
collapsed the Spanish telephone
lines during the change of 2000.
You remember that it seemed like everything
was going to stop because computers
were changing.
At that time, we had over
400,000 customers in Spain.
They decided to call us almost
all at once and we collapsed
the Spanish phone nodes.
He called us and told us what
was going on?
We don’t have enough lines for all
the people who are trying to
get into you.
This has not only stopped us with
Operation Triumph and with you.
So what you imagine.
So back a little to your question,
it was a series of circumstances
in which we were able to
meet what the market demanded
at that time.